week1_session1.md, before:

The first session is the Monday session. The second session is the Thursday
session.

These are the notes for the Monday session.

We will update them before and after the session, to please keep checking back
for updates.  Just refresh the page in your browser to get updates.

The Zoom link for all sessions is
<https://numfocus-org.zoom.us/j/89458437731?pwd=eTF0V252bHlKOXBucnBUWlVBSm9uUT09>.

## Recording

[Recording of Monday Week 1 session
1](https://numfocus-org.zoom.us/rec/share/nxcgD4PGsc-RI3QdTAiR2GBU1xkMrB5CPmf-sPSC52FSqTkXW7T55CPH1gS7lSSZ.PINmaKGVNAmPXOi-)

## Schedule and plan

- We will be referring often to the [textbook](https://textbook.nipraxis.org).
- Hello and welcome.
- Thanks to the [Chan Zuckerberg
  Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/strengthening-community-and-code-foundations-for-brain-imaging/).
- [Surviving the
  computer](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/surviving_computers.html).  See video link below.
- Machinery:
    - <https://textbook.nipraxis.org>
    - <https://learn.nipraxis.org>
    - <https://hub.nipraxis.org> and the Jupyter notebook.
    - <https://github.com/nipraxis>
- About the project.
- We will gradually move away from notebooks.
- [Using Jupyter notebooks](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/using_jupyter.html)
  and [more on Jupyter
  notebooks](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/more_on_jupyter.html)
- For reference: [Very fast introduction to
  Python](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/introducing_python.html)


## For homework

If you need to catch up on Python and Numpy, you have a double-dose of
homework this week. In particular, you really will need to do the second
section here, to get fluent in basic Python and Numpy.  If you are already fluent, you only need to do the first section.

Any problems, email <matthew.brett@gmail.com>, I will point you to someone else
who can help if I can't help you.

### For everyone: surviving computer, installing on your own machine

Make sure you have watched:

<iframe title="Surviving the computer" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/693542789?h=63ccfc6dfa" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Next:

* Check your knowledge with the [fast introduction to
  Python](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/brisk_python.html).
* [Install Python and required libraries on your
  computer](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/installation.html).  Make sure you
  have run the install check at the end of that page.

That's all for those of you who are comfortable with Python and Numpy. See below for those of you who need to catch up.

### If you need practice with Python or Numpy

If you don't know Python well, we strongly suggest you do these exercises to
catch up, otherwise the rest of the course will be too fast.  Make sure, too, that you've read the fast introduction to Python above.

#### Python

If you are new to Python, do the [expressions and statements
exercise](https://hub.nipraxis.org/hub/user-redirect/git-pull?repo=https%3A//github.com/uob-cfd/exprs_states&subPath=exprs_states.ipynb),
to get into the swing of things.

Next, do these exercises from the [Google Python
class](https://developers.google.com/edu/python/).  There are links in the
exercises to the sections to read to revise the ideas you need.

- [string1
  exercise](https://hub.nipraxis.org/hub/user-redirect/git-pull?repo=https%3A//github.com/nipraxis/google_string1&subPath=string1.ipynb)
- [list1
  exercise](https://hub.nipraxis.org/hub/user-redirect/git-pull?repo=https%3A//github.com/nipraxis/google_list1&subPath=list1.ipynb)

We also suggest you try the slightly more advanced exercises:

- [string2
  exercise](https://hub.nipraxis.org/hub/user-redirect/git-pull?repo=https%3A//github.com/nipraxis/google_string2&subPath=string2.ipynb)
- [list2
  exercise](https://hub.nipraxis.org/hub/user-redirect/git-pull?repo=https%3A//github.com/nipraxis/google_list2&subPath=list2.ipynb)

#### Numpy

(Re-)Read the [introduction to
Numpy](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/numpy_intro.html).

For a fuller introduction to Numpy, please see [the Scientific Python Numpy tutorial](https://lectures.scientific-python.org/intro/numpy/index.html).

Specifically, see:

* The [numpy array
  object](https://lectures.scientific-python.org/intro/numpy/array_object.html);
* [Array
  operations](https://lectures.scientific-python.org/intro/numpy/operations.html).
* If you know Matlab, you might want to look over this page on [Numpy for
  Matlab users](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/user/numpy-for-matlab-users.html).

Make sure you can do the [arrays
exercise](https://hub.nipraxis.org/hub/user-redirect/git-pull?repo=https%3A//github.com/nipraxis/arrays&subPath=arrays.ipynb)

## The end

That's it for this session.

Commit message:

Move over references to hub.nipraxis.or

week1_session1.md, after:

The first session is the Monday session. The second session is the Thursday
session.

These are the notes for the Monday session.

We will update them before and after the session, to please keep checking back
for updates.  Just refresh the page in your browser to get updates.

The Zoom link for all sessions is
<https://numfocus-org.zoom.us/j/89458437731?pwd=eTF0V252bHlKOXBucnBUWlVBSm9uUT09>.

## Recording

[Recording of Monday Week 1 session
1](https://numfocus-org.zoom.us/rec/share/nxcgD4PGsc-RI3QdTAiR2GBU1xkMrB5CPmf-sPSC52FSqTkXW7T55CPH1gS7lSSZ.PINmaKGVNAmPXOi-)

## Schedule and plan

- We will be referring often to the [textbook](https://textbook.nipraxis.org).
- Hello and welcome.
- Thanks to the [Chan Zuckerberg
  Initiative](https://chanzuckerberg.com/eoss/proposals/strengthening-community-and-code-foundations-for-brain-imaging/).
- [Surviving the
  computer](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/surviving_computers.html).  See video link below.
- Machinery:
    - <https://textbook.nipraxis.org>
    - <https://learn.nipraxis.org>
    - `https://hub.nipraxis.org` and the Jupyter notebook (`hub.nipraxis.org`
      is now down after the end of our CZI grant funding).
    - <https://github.com/nipraxis>
- About the project.
- We will gradually move away from notebooks.
- [Using Jupyter notebooks](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/using_jupyter.html)
  and [more on Jupyter
  notebooks](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/more_on_jupyter.html)
- For reference: [Very fast introduction to
  Python](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/introducing_python.html)


## For homework

If you need to catch up on Python and Numpy, you have a double-dose of
homework this week. In particular, you really will need to do the second
section here, to get fluent in basic Python and Numpy.  If you are already fluent, you only need to do the first section.

Any problems, email <matthew.brett@gmail.com>, I will point you to someone else
who can help if I can't help you.

### For everyone: surviving computer, installing on your own machine

Make sure you have watched:

<iframe title="Surviving the computer" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/693542789?h=63ccfc6dfa" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Next:

* Check your knowledge with the [fast introduction to
  Python](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/brisk_python.html).
* [Install Python and required libraries on your
  computer](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/installation.html).  Make sure you
  have run the install check at the end of that page.

That's all for those of you who are comfortable with Python and Numpy. See below for those of you who need to catch up.

### If you need practice with Python or Numpy

If you don't know Python well, we strongly suggest you do these exercises to
catch up, otherwise the rest of the course will be too fast.  Make sure, too, that you've read the fast introduction to Python above.

#### Python

If you are new to Python, do the [expressions and statements
exercise](https://github.com/uob-cfd/exprs_states).

* [Multi-model exercise](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/nipraxis/summer-2023/main?urlpath=tree/multi_model/multi_model.ipynb)
to get into the swing of things.

Next, do these exercises from the [Google Python
class](https://developers.google.com/edu/python/).  There are links in the
exercises to the sections to read to revise the ideas you need.

- [string1
  exercise](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/nipraxis/summer-2023/main?urlpath=tree/google_string1/string1.ipynb)
- [list1
  exercise](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/nipraxis/summer-2023/main?urlpath=tree/google_list1/list1.ipynb)

We also suggest you try the slightly more advanced exercises:

- [string2
  exercise](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/nipraxis/summer-2023/main?urlpath=tree/google_string2/string2.ipynb)
- [list2
  exercise](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/nipraxis/summer-2023/main?urlpath=tree/google_list2/list2.ipynb)

#### Numpy

(Re-)Read the [introduction to
Numpy](https://textbook.nipraxis.org/numpy_intro.html).

For a fuller introduction to Numpy, please see [the Scientific Python Numpy tutorial](https://lectures.scientific-python.org/intro/numpy/index.html).

Specifically, see:

* The [numpy array
  object](https://lectures.scientific-python.org/intro/numpy/array_object.html);
* [Array
  operations](https://lectures.scientific-python.org/intro/numpy/operations.html).
* If you know Matlab, you might want to look over this page on [Numpy for
  Matlab users](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/user/numpy-for-matlab-users.html).

Make sure you can do the [arrays
exercise](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/nipraxis/summer-2023/main?urlpath=tree/arrays/arrays.ipynb)

## The end

That's it for this session.
